# Releasing a new version

This guide aims to provide guidance on how to release new versions of `cloud-sdk-go` as well as updating all the necessary parts to make it successful.

- [Releasing a new version](#releasing-a-new-version)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
    - [Make sure `VERSION`, `ECE_VERSION` and `ECE_BRANCH` are correct](#make-sure-version-eceversion-and-ecebranch-are-correct)
    - [Update the `apidocs.json` and `apidocs-user.json` files](#update-the-apidocsjson-and-apidocs-userjson-files)
    - [Generating a changelog for the new version](#generating-a-changelog-for-the-new-version)
  - [Executing the release](#executing-the-release)

## Prerequisites

Releasing a new version implies that there have been changes in the source code which are meant to be released for wider consumption. Before releasing a new version there's some prerequisites that have to be checked.

### Make sure `VERSION`, `ECE_VERSION` and `ECE_BRANCH` are correct

- `VERSION` is the next `cloud-sdk-go` version that should be released (For example `1.14.0`)
- `ECE_VERSION` marks with which ECE this release is compatible. (For example `3.6.1`)
- `ECE_BRANCH` defines which API is used to generate the API clients (For example `ms-98`)

The `VERSION` is currently defined in the [Makefile](./Makefile) as an exported environment variable called `VERSION` in the [SEMVER](https://semver.org) format: `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`

Say we want to perform a minor version release (i.e. no breaking changes and only new features and bug fixes are being included); in which case we'll update the _MINOR_ part of the version, this can be done with the `make minor` target. However, this is usally not necessary: After executing a release, a Github action will automatically run `make minor`.

#### Patch release
If a patch version needs to be released, the release will be done from the minor branch. For example, if we want to release `v1.5.1`, we will check out the `1.5` branch and perform any changes in that branch. The VERSION variable in the Makefile should already be up to date, but in case it's not, it can be bumped with the `make patch` target.

### Update the `apidocs.json` and `apidocs-user.json` files

Calling `make update-swagger` will udpate the OpenAPI spec files based on what is configured in `ECE_BRANCH`.

By default, it will try and clone the cloud repository into `/tmp/cloud`, but you might choose to override that location via the `CLOUD_SOURCE_REPO` Makefile variable: `make CLOUD_SOURCE_REPO=/a/path/to/cloud update-swagger` or alternatively you can copy your **clean** local copy of the cloud repo to `/tmp/cloud`: `cp -R /a/path/to/cloud /tmp/cloud` since cloning a brand-new copy of the cloud repo can take a long time.

After `make update-swagger` has been run, `make swagger` needs to be run to re-generate the API and model Go code which will generate the following files:

* `pkg/client`: All the generated API code.
* `pkg/models`: All the generated API models.
* `api/version/<ECE_VERSION>.md`: A Markdown document containing all the API endpoints for the version.

After the changes have been made, open a pull request with all the changes targeting the relevant branch (minor versions will target `master`, while patch versions will target the relevant branch). For example, if `1.6.0` needs to be released, then the pull request will be opened against master, but if `1.5.1` needs to be released, the pull request will target the `1.5` branch.

### Generating a changelog for the new version

Changelog entries are manually added under `.changelog/<VERSION>`. For each merged PR, a changelog entry can be added. See previous entries for examples.

After entries have been added, the changelog document can be automatically generated by calling
`make format changelog`. This command will also update the `NOTICE` document containing 
 
To read more information on how to generate a changelog [see the changelogger README](../cmd/changelogger/README.md).

## Executing the release

After all the prerequisites have been ticked off, the only thing remaining is to run `make tag`. The target which will attempt to release a new version.
