notes/v1.0.0-beta2.md, before:

# Changelog

## Notable changes
<!-- Add the list of notable changes, remove otherwise.-->
This is a slim release on the SDK side, mainly contains bug fixes, version updates development improvements.
As usual, the autogenerated Go code has been updated to match the 2.5.0 ECE API swagger specification.

### Bug fixes
<!-- Add the list of bug fixes, remove otherwise.-->

#### Plan tracker reported some plans as successfully finished when they actually failed

Fixes a bug in the plan tracker logic which made it return the first
step which finished with status "error" rather than the last step. This
has many downstream effects but more notably, makes vacates miss the end
result of the vacate and potentially set a cluster vacate as "Sucessful"
when it is not.

### Detailed changes
<!-- AUTOGENERATED COMMIT LIST -->

* e50562a api: Update API version to 2.5.0 (#76)
* cf2338d release: Update apidocs.json to ECE 2.5.0 spec (#67)
* aba24d5 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/errors from 0.19.3 to 0.19.4 (#71)
* 5e422fb build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.11 to 0.19.12 (#72)
* 4808101 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/strfmt from 0.19.4 to 0.19.5 (#73)
* a564caa build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/validate from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#74)
* 1afc3c4 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/swag from 0.19.7 to 0.19.8 (#70)
* 834f44b build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/spec from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#69)
* 6bd291d deps: Bump golangci-lint to v1.23.8 (#68)
* 8877c73 plan: Fix bug where last step error was missed (#65)
* 5c4b8bd build(deps): bump github.com/spf13/cobra from 0.0.5 to 0.0.6 (#64)
* 558f37a feat(cmdutil): add resource closer logger. (#63)
* ab7bbd2 makefile: using caching in deps target (#61)
* a8c57d3 release: changelog and version tag for v1.0.0-beta1 (#60)
* 47fe6b9 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.10 to 0.19.11 (#57)
* 985599c build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/spec from 0.19.5 to 0.19.6 (#56)
* 2ff814b build: Add Go module cache for GitHub actions (#58)
* 7c191f6 deps: Update swagger to v0.22.0 (#59)
* 5469f6f release: changelog and version tag for v1.0.0-bc14 (#55)
* 9c5dfa6 util: copy cmdutil package files that are not specific to ecctl (#54)
* 513b94d improve logging names and package structure (#50)
* 122578f build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.9 to 0.19.10 (#51)
* 1657f03 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/swag from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#52)
* 0c5a8ad build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/validate from 0.19.5 to 0.19.6 (#53)
* aa9fd3c api: /deployment/{id}/notes should use region path (#49)
* e4a7634 add the soteria logging wrarppers,utils and assertions (#47)
* 9d1e170 bump golang-ci linter version to 1.22.2 (#48)

Commit message:

Mention customizable user-agent
Signed-off-by: Marc Lopez <marc5.12@outlook.com>

notes/v1.0.0-beta2.md, after:

# Changelog

## Notable changes
<!-- Add the list of notable changes, remove otherwise.-->
This is a slim release on the SDK side, mainly contains bug fixes, version updates development improvements.
As usual, the autogenerated Go code has been updated to match the 2.5.0 ECE API swagger specification.

### Features

#### Customizable User-Agent

Allows the user to configure a user agent via `api.Config.UserAgent`. If the field is not set, it defaults
to `cloud-sdk-go/<version>`, which after this release it will be `cloud-sdk-go/2.5.0`.

### Bug fixes
<!-- Add the list of bug fixes, remove otherwise.-->

#### Plan tracker reported some plans as successfully finished when they actually failed

Fixes a bug in the plan tracker logic which made it return the first
step which finished with status "error" rather than the last step. This
has many downstream effects but more notably, makes vacates miss the end
result of the vacate and potentially set a cluster vacate as "Sucessful"
when it is not.

### Detailed changes
<!-- AUTOGENERATED COMMIT LIST -->

* e50562a api: Update API version to 2.5.0 (#76)
* cf2338d release: Update apidocs.json to ECE 2.5.0 spec (#67)
* aba24d5 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/errors from 0.19.3 to 0.19.4 (#71)
* 5e422fb build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.11 to 0.19.12 (#72)
* 4808101 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/strfmt from 0.19.4 to 0.19.5 (#73)
* a564caa build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/validate from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#74)
* 1afc3c4 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/swag from 0.19.7 to 0.19.8 (#70)
* 834f44b build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/spec from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#69)
* 6bd291d deps: Bump golangci-lint to v1.23.8 (#68)
* 8877c73 plan: Fix bug where last step error was missed (#65)
* 5c4b8bd build(deps): bump github.com/spf13/cobra from 0.0.5 to 0.0.6 (#64)
* 558f37a feat(cmdutil): add resource closer logger. (#63)
* ab7bbd2 makefile: using caching in deps target (#61)
* a8c57d3 release: changelog and version tag for v1.0.0-beta1 (#60)
* 47fe6b9 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.10 to 0.19.11 (#57)
* 985599c build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/spec from 0.19.5 to 0.19.6 (#56)
* 2ff814b build: Add Go module cache for GitHub actions (#58)
* 7c191f6 deps: Update swagger to v0.22.0 (#59)
* 5469f6f release: changelog and version tag for v1.0.0-bc14 (#55)
* 9c5dfa6 util: copy cmdutil package files that are not specific to ecctl (#54)
* 513b94d improve logging names and package structure (#50)
* 122578f build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/runtime from 0.19.9 to 0.19.10 (#51)
* 1657f03 build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/swag from 0.19.6 to 0.19.7 (#52)
* 0c5a8ad build(deps): bump github.com/go-openapi/validate from 0.19.5 to 0.19.6 (#53)
* aa9fd3c api: /deployment/{id}/notes should use region path (#49)
* e4a7634 add the soteria logging wrarppers,utils and assertions (#47)
* 9d1e170 bump golang-ci linter version to 1.22.2 (#48)
