# Changelog

This release of the Elastic Cloud SDK Go should be used for ECE Version `2.10.0`.

## New APIs

### Add new `trafficfilterapi.NewUpdateRequestFromGet` ([#317](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/317))

New function allows building a traffic filter update request from the current traffic filter.

### Add new proxy `settingsapi.Get` function ([#326](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/326))

Adds a new API that allows obtaining ECE Proxy setting information.

### Add new proxy `settingsapi.Update` function ([#327](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/327))

Adds a new API that allows updating an ECE Proxy settings, overriding any previous settings with the specified parameters.

### Add new proxy `settingsapi.Patch` function ([#328](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/328))

Adds a new API that allows updating a partial definition of a proxy's settings using the PATCH method.

## Enhancements

### Add failure fields to plan tracking ([#315](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/315))

A new `FailureDetails` field has been added to the plan tracking output and returned error from `plan.TrackChange`.

This change will only be noticeable for clients that chose to plan a change with a JSON formatter. Other clients
outputs will remain untouched.

### Allow `deploymentsize.ParseGb to parse "0g" and "0" ([#324](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/324))

Updates the `deploymentsize.ParseGb` function to allow parsing `"0"` and `"0g"`.

### Improve `allocatorapi.Vacate` API calls ([#330](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/330))

Optimizes the API calls that the Vacate function performs in order to reduce the amount of work
the API has to perform to calculate a cluster's move.

## Bug fixes

### Fix ignored "order" field in `DeploymentTemplate` structures ([#323](https:/github.com/elastic/cloud-sdk-go/issues/323))

Updates the field type of the `DeploymentTemplate` structures to `*int32` so the `0` value is not lost when the JSON is decoded.

